Community patterns, structures, redesign

Observations from my experiences in various online communities that use social interaction as the driving mechanism:

1. When communications are directly tied to word analysis for ad targeting, there is less emphasis on creating stable community structures for support and learning.

2. Word analysis cannot be reduced to single word matches that relate to financial gain as it affects advertisers.

3. Word analysis cannot be reduced to single word matches to recommend other people to talk to.

4. A better approach to word analysis is to take multiple words, seemingly unrelated and to see their trending/decay over a period of time for both the individual and their correlation with others in the network.

5. Recommendations cannot be automated in regular intervals - it should either be requested by the person as needed or provided based on their level of comfort in interaction - that is, introverted or extroverted signifiers to avoid overwhelming their experience.

6. Healthy online communities should not focus on a topic that is fragile and/or dependent on a particular social network - in other words, the loss of the technology that brought the community together cannot also be the destroyer. People should be able to carry on with their interactions in the same manner sans tool.

7. Technology is merely a bridge to reduce the path from one person to others and nothing more.

8. Community tribes will naturally have sub-tribes of a subset of people who will have specific and more intimate conversations compared to the public sphere.

9. Participants of sub-tribes should have an easy way of meeting others from unrelated sub-tribes if they have matching interests - this can be automated in a weak system such as multiple word analysis and word vectors but strengthened through actual human intervention by 'friend of a friend' recommendations. 

10. Healthy communities with varying interests need to have a decentralized aspect to their communications and cannot be forced to use a centralized system as their point of entry and point of contact. Sub-tribes should be able to choose their communication bridge freely.